# Interlock
Directors of Charities in Canada
The social infrastructure of cities consists in individual people at the smallest scale but includes families, friendship networks, work colleagues as well as groups, organizations, and businesses of all kinds. 

Canadian charities fill out financial and activity reports each year and this includes a list of their directors. Using network analysis tools, we have examined board memberships across Ottawa that include people who are on more than one charitable board.

Research concerning the impacts of having weak (arms-length) or strong (embedded) social ties has often been pursued in a business context (For example, see: Granovetter, M. (2005). The Impact of Social Structure on Economic Outcomes. The Journal of Economic Perspectives, 19(1), 33–50; Granovetter, M. S. (1973). The Strength of Weak Ties. American Journal of Sociology, 78(6), 1360–1380; Uzzi, B. (1996). The Sources and Consequences of Embeddedness for the Economic Performance of Organizations: The Network Effect. American Sociological Review, 61(4), 674–698.).  

In his examination of economic crises in two American cities, Safford  extended this system of thought to include charities and civic organizations in addition to for-profit companies. In the early 1980s, Youngstown, OH, and Allentown, PA were two steel towns that had both reached a point of near economic collapse as the steel industry developed away from their communities (Safford, S. (2009). Why the Garden Club Couldn’t Save Youngstown: The Transformation of the Rust Belt. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press.). Surprisingly, one city managed to thrive while the other saw rising unemployment and lower wages. How could such economically and structurally similar cities move in opposite directions when facing the quick decline of the industry they both depended on? Safford argues that the deeply embedded civic and economic ties in Youngstown prevented the change-makers in the city from making change. Allentown, on the other hand, had a more fragmented social architecture and responded more positively to the suggestions of independent.

Measuring the connections between civic and charitable organizations may give insight into the adaptability and resiliency of cities before these qualities are tested in turbulent times. By using the T3010 data to map out the interlocking directorates of organizations in Ottawa, we are hoping to provide the beginnings of a framework that can be used to do exactly this.
